<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

## widgets/NotificationUI

The global NotificationUI can be used to create popup notifications over dom elements or generics app notifications.

A global `window.EventManager` object is made available in phoenix that can be called anytime after AppStart.
This global can be triggered from anywhere without using require context.

## Usage

### Simple example

For Eg. Let's say we have to create a popup notification over the HTML element with ID `showInfileTree`.
We can do this with the following

```js
const NotificationUI = brackets.getModule("widgets/NotificationUI");
// or use window.NotificationUI global object has the same effect.
let notification = NotificationUI.createFromTemplate("Click me to locate the file in file tree", "showInfileTree",{});
notification.done(()=>{
    console.log("notification is closed in ui.");
})
```

### Advanced example

Another advanced example where you can specify html and interactive components in the notification

```js
// note that you can even provide an HTML Element node with
// custom event handlers directly here instead of HTML text.
let notification1 = NotificationUI.createFromTemplate(
  "<div>Click me to </br>locate the file in file tree</div>", "showInfileTree",{
      allowedPlacements: ['top', 'bottom'],
      dismissOnClick: false,
      autoCloseTimeS: 300 // auto close the popup after 5 minutes
  });
// do stuff
notification1.done((closeReason)=>{
    console.log("notification is closed in ui reason:", closeReason);
})
```

The [createFromTemplate][1] API can be configured with numerous options. See API options below.

## API

This section outlines the properties and methods available in this module

## Notification

This is an instance of the notification returned by the `createFromTemplate` call. The object can be used to
control the created notification. See Notification docs below.

Type: [Object][2]

## Notification.close

Closes the Notification if is visible and destroys then dom nodes

Type: [function][3]

## Notification.done

Adds a done callback to the Notification promise. The promise will be resolved
when the Notification is dismissed. Never rejected.

Type: [function][3]

### Examples

Print the close reason on console when the notification closes

```javascript
notificationInstance.done((closeReason)=>{
    console.log(closeReason)
})
```

## createFromTemplate

Creates a new notification popup from given template.
The template can either be a string or a jQuery object representing a DOM node that is *not* in the current DOM.

Type: [function][3]

### Parameters

*   `template` **([string][4] | [Element][5])** A string template or HTML Element to use as the dialog HTML.
*   `elementID` **[String][4]?** optional id string if provided will show the notification pointing to the element.
    If no element is specified, it will be managed as a generic notification.
*   `options` **[Object][2]?** optional, supported*   options are:
    *   `allowedPlacements` - Optional String array with values restricting where the notification will be shown.
        Values can be a mix of `['top', 'bottom', 'left', 'right']`
    *   `autoCloseTimeS` - Time in seconds after which the notification should be auto closed. Default is never.
    *   `dismissOnClick` - when clicked, the notification is closed. Default is true(dismiss).

### Examples

Creating a notification popup

````javascript
```js
// note that you can even provide an HTML Element node with
// custom event handlers directly here instead of HTML text.
let notification1 = NotificationUI.createFromTemplate(
  "<div>Click me to </br>locate the file in file tree</div>", "showInfileTree",{
      allowedPlacements: ['top', 'bottom'],
      dismissOnClick: false,
      autoCloseTimeS: 300 // auto close the popup after 5 minutes
  });
```
````

Returns **[Notification][6]** Object with a done handler that resolves when the notification closes.

[1]: <>

[2]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object

[3]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/function

[4]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String

[5]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Element

[6]: #notification
