README.md, before:

# Welcome to Phoenix!

Phoenix is a modern open-source and free code editor for the web, built for the browser.


Phoenix is in early alpha.  
* **Test out development build of phoenix by visiting this URL:** [**http://phoenix.core.ai/src**](http://phoenix.core.ai/src) 
* Please subscribe to our [notification list](https://core.ai/) to get notified when Phoenix goes live. 

![Phoenix](./phoenix.png)

## Tenets
1. Targeted for web development. Js, html and CSS enjoy special status.
2. Light-weight editor.
3. Extension support maintaining full compatibility with Brackets extensions (except brackets-node extensions).
4. Uncompromised local development experience.
5. Support for pluggable remote back-ends.
6. Phoenix core will work from a static web server.

## Status
Phoenix is in alpha and is under active development.
* [Phoenix Alpha development status](https://github.com/aicore/phoenix/issues/11).

## Contributing/ Feedback
* [Get in touch with our community](https://github.com/aicore/phoenix/discussions).
* [Request a new feature](https://github.com/aicore/phoenix/discussions/categories/ideas)
* [Join our Discord community](https://discord.gg/TwgBFCjVBd)
* [Raise issues](https://github.com/aicore/phoenix/issues)
* [Contribute](https://github.com/aicore/phoenix)

## Building Phoenix
[Source Repository](https://github.com/aicore/phoenix) 

* Require widows for builds in the port window.
* Have brackets installed in windows
* use nodejs version for windows less than node v6.10
* run `npm install --force`
* Use a web server and navigate in browser to `src/index.html`

## Acknowledgements
* Phoenix is based on the Brackets code editor by Adobe. Find out more on [Adobe Brackets here](https://github.com/adobe/brackets/).
* Inspired by previous work from the [Mozilla Thimble](https://github.com/mozilla/thimble.mozilla.org) project to port brackets to the web. https://github.com/mozilla/brackets
* In browser server based on [nohost](https://github.com/humphd/nohost) by https://github.com/humphd/


## License
Copyright (c) Core.ai. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the AGPL license.

Commit message:

AGPL text as per license terms

README.md, after:

# Welcome to Phoenix!

Phoenix is a modern open-source and free code editor for the web, built for the browser.


Phoenix is in early alpha.  
* **Test out development build of phoenix by visiting this URL:** [**http://phoenix.core.ai/src**](http://phoenix.core.ai/src) 
* Please subscribe to our [notification list](https://core.ai/) to get notified when Phoenix goes live. 

![Phoenix](./phoenix.png)

## Tenets
1. Targeted for web development. Js, html and CSS enjoy special status.
2. Light-weight editor.
3. Extension support maintaining full compatibility with Brackets extensions (except brackets-node extensions).
4. Uncompromised local development experience.
5. Support for pluggable remote back-ends.
6. Phoenix core will work from a static web server.

## Status
Phoenix is in alpha and is under active development.
* [Phoenix Alpha development status](https://github.com/aicore/phoenix/issues/11).

## Contributing/ Feedback
* [Get in touch with our community](https://github.com/aicore/phoenix/discussions).
* [Request a new feature](https://github.com/aicore/phoenix/discussions/categories/ideas)
* [Join our Discord community](https://discord.gg/TwgBFCjVBd)
* [Raise issues](https://github.com/aicore/phoenix/issues)
* [Contribute](https://github.com/aicore/phoenix)

## Building Phoenix
[Source Repository](https://github.com/aicore/phoenix) 

* Require widows for builds in the port window.
* Have brackets installed in windows
* use nodejs version for windows less than node v6.10
* run `npm install --force`
* Use a web server and navigate in browser to `src/index.html`

## Acknowledgements
* Phoenix is based on the Brackets code editor by Adobe. Find out more on [Adobe Brackets here](https://github.com/adobe/brackets/).
* Inspired by previous work from the [Mozilla Thimble](https://github.com/mozilla/thimble.mozilla.org) project to port brackets to the web. https://github.com/mozilla/brackets
* In browser server based on [nohost](https://github.com/humphd/nohost) by https://github.com/humphd/


## License
GNU AGPL-3.0 License

Modified work Copyright (c) 2021 - present Core.ai
Original work Copyright (c) 2012 Adobe Systems Incorporated. All rights reserved.

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the
License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU Affero General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see https://opensource.org/licenses/AGPL-3.0.
