<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

## utils/PhoenixComm

PhoenixComm APIs can be used to communicate between Phoenix browser tabs/iframe instances across the browser.

### Import

```js
// usage within core:
const PhoenixComm = require("utils/PhoenixComm");

// usage within default extensions:
const PhoenixComm = brackets.getModule("utils/PhoenixComm");
```

## API

This section outlines the properties and methods available in this module

## PHOENIX_INSTANCE_ID

A unique ID for each phoenix window instance. Test windows also have an id.

Type: [String][1]

## broadcast

Broadcast a message to other Phoenix instances. To listen to the broadcast message on another phoenix instance,
use PhoenixComm.on methord

Type: [function][2]

### Parameters

*   `eventType` **[string][1]** The kind of Event Type that needs to be sent to other phoenix instances
*   `data` **[Object][3]** The Data object to broadcast

### Examples

To broadcast/receive a hello message to everyone

```javascript
PhoenixComm.broadcast("MSG_TYPE", "hello world", "ms", 200);
// now to receive the message of the type, use the on method
PhoenixComm.on("MSG_TYPE", (evt, data) =>{
    console.log(data); // hello world
})
```

## getAllInstanceDetails

Returns a map of all instances of Phoenix. Mapped from instanceID to detail {instanceID, isTestWindow}.
Will not contain self instance details.

Returns **[Object][3]** that maps instance IDs that are currently online to the instance details.

## EVENTS

This section outlines the standard events generated by PhoenixComm. use
`PhoenixComm.on(PhoenixComm.EVENT_PHOENIX_CLOSING,fn)` to listen to these events.

*   `EVENT_PHOENIX_CLOSING` - Event raised when another phoenix window is closing. Raises `instanceID`
*   `EVENT_PHOENIX_OPENED`  - Raises `{instanceID, isTestWindow}` when another phoenix window is opened.

[1]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String

[2]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/function

[3]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object
