<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

## utils/StringUtils

Utilities functions related to string manipulation

## format

Format a string by replacing placeholder symbols with passed in arguments.

Example: var formatted = StringUtils.format("Hello {0}", "World");

### Parameters

*   `str` **[string][1]** The base string

Returns **[string][1]** Formatted string

## getLines

Splits the text by new line characters and returns an array of lines

### Parameters

*   `text` **[string][1]** 

Returns **[Array][2]<[string][1]>** lines

## offsetToLineNum

Returns a line number corresponding to an offset in some text. The text can
be specified as a single string or as an array of strings that correspond to
the lines of the string.

Specify the text in lines when repeatedly calling the function on the same
text in a loop. Use getLines() to divide the text into lines, then repeatedly call
this function to compute a line number from the offset.

### Parameters

*   `textOrLines` **([string][1] | [Array][2]<[string][1]>)** string or array of lines from which
    to compute the line number from the offset
*   `offset` **[number][3]** 

Returns **[number][3]** line number

## startsWith

Returns true if the given string starts with the given prefix.

### Parameters

*   `str` **[String][1]** 
*   `prefix` **[String][1]** 

Returns **[Boolean][4]** 

## endsWith

Returns true if the given string ends with the given suffix.

### Parameters

*   `str` **[string][1]** 
*   `suffix` **[string][1]** 

## breakableUrl

Return an escaped path or URL string that can be broken near path separators.

### Parameters

*   `url` **[string][1]** the path or URL to format

Returns **[string][1]** the formatted path or URL

## prettyPrintBytes

Converts number of bytes into human readable format.
If param bytes is negative it returns the number without any changes.

### Parameters

*   `bytes` **[number][3]** Number of bytes to convert
*   `precision` **[number][3]** Number of digits after the decimal separator

Returns **[string][1]** 

## truncate

Truncate text to specified length.

### Parameters

*   `str` **[string][1]** Text to be truncated.
*   `len` **[number][3]** Length to which text should be truncated

Returns **[string][1]?** Returns truncated text only if it was changed

## hashCode

Computes a 32bit hash from the given string
Taken from [http://stackoverflow.com/questions/7616461/generate-a-hash-from-string-in-javascript-jquery][5]

### Parameters

*   `str` **[string][1]** The string for which hash is to be computed

Returns **[number][3]** The 32-bit hash

## randomString

Generates a random nonce string of the specified length.

!!!Should not be used for crypto secure workflows.!!!

### Parameters

*   `stringLength` **[number][3]** The length of the nonce in bytes. default 10. (optional, default `10`)
*   `prefix` **[string][1]?** optional prefix (optional, default `""`)

Returns **[string][1]** The randomly generated nonce.

[1]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String

[2]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array

[3]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number

[4]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Boolean

[5]: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/7616461/generate-a-hash-from-string-in-javascript-jquery
