<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

## NodeConnector

Node Connector Communication Module

This module simplifies communication between Node.js and Phoenix (phcode). A `NodeConnector` acts as an intermediary,
allowing you to execute functions in Node.js from Phoenix and vice versa. You can use the `execPeer` method to call
functions on the other side and handle communication seamlessly. Use `triggerPeer` to trigger events
on the other side.

## Setting Up a `NodeConnector`

To establish communication between two modules, such as `x.js` in Phoenix and `y.js` in Node.js, follow these steps:

### Create `NodeConnector` in Phoenix (`x.js`)

```js
const NodeConnector = require('NodeConnector');
const XY_NODE_CONNECTOR_ID = 'ext_x_y'; // Use a unique ID
let nodeConnector = NodeConnector.createNodeConnector(XY_NODE_CONNECTOR_ID, exports);

exports.modifyImage = async function(imageName, imageArrayBuffer) {
  // Perform image operations with the imageArrayBuffer
  // To return an ArrayBuffer, return an object with a `buffer` key.
  return {
    operationDone: 'colored, cropped',
    buffer: imageArrayBuffer,
  };
};
```

### Create `NodeConnector` in Node.js (`y.js`)

```js
const XY_NODE_CONNECTOR_ID = 'ext_x_y'; // Use the same unique ID
let nodeConnector = global.createNodeConnector(XY_NODE_CONNECTOR_ID, exports);

exports.getPWDRelative = async function(subPath) {
  return process.cwd + '/' + subPath;
};
```

With these steps, a `NodeConnector` is set up, enabling two-way communication.

## Executing Functions

To call a Node.js function from Phoenix, use the `execPeer` method.

```js
// In `x.js` (Phoenix)
const fullPath = await nodeConnector.execPeer('getPWDRelative', 'sub/path.html');
```

To execute a Phoenix function from Node.js and transfer binary data, pass an optional ArrayBuffer.

```js
// In `y.js` (Node.js)
const { operationDone, buffer } = await nodeConnector.execPeer('modifyImage', {name:'theHills.png'}, imageAsArrayBuffer);
```

## Event Handling

The `NodeConnector` object implements all the APIs supported by `utils/EventDispatcher`. You can trigger and listen
to events between Node.js and Phoenix using the `triggerPeer` and (`on`, `one` or `off`) methods.

```js
// In `y.js` (Node.js)
nodeConnector.on('phoenixProjectOpened', (_event, projectPath) => {
  console.log(projectPath);
});

nodeConnector.one('phoenixProjectOpened', (_event, projectPath) => {
  console.log(projectPath + "will be received only once");
});
```

To raise an event from Phoenix to Node.js:

```js
// In `x.js` (Phoenix)
nodeConnector.triggerPeer('phoenixProjectOpened', '/x/project/folder');
```

To Switch off events

```js
nodeConnector.off('phoenixProjectOpened'); // will switch off all event handlers of that name.
```

By Default, all events handlers with the eventName is removed when you call `nodeConnector.off(eventName)` fn.
To selectively switch off event handlers, please see reference for `utils/EventDispatcher` module.

### Handling ArrayBuffer Data in Function Execution

When executing functions that send or receive binary data, ensure that the functions are asynchronous and accept an
optional ArrayBuffer as a parameter. To return binary data, use an object with a `buffer` key.

Example of calling a function in Node.js with binary data transfer:

```js
// In `y.js` (Node.js)
const { operationDone, buffer } = await nodeConnector.execPeer('modifyImage', {name:'name.png'}, imageArrayBuffer);
```

### Handling ArrayBuffer Data in Event Handling

Use the `triggerPeer` method to send binary data in events. Include the ArrayBuffer as an optional parameter.

Example of sending binary data in an event from Phoenix to Node.js:

```js
// In `x.js` (Phoenix)
const imageArrayBuffer = getSomeImageArrayBuffer(); // Get the ArrayBuffer
nodeConnector.triggerPeer('imageEdited', 'name.png', imageArrayBuffer);
```

*   ## Caveats

<!---->

*   Be cautious when sending large binary data, as it may affect performance and memory usage. Transferring large
    data is fully supported, but be mindful of performance.
*   Functions called with `execPeer` and `triggerPeer` must be asynchronous and accept a single argument. An optional
    second argument can be used to transfer large binary data as an ArrayBuffer.

For more event handling operations and details, refer to the documentation for the `utils/EventDispatcher` module.

## createNodeConnector

Creates a new node connector with the specified ID and module exports.

Returns a NodeConnector Object (which is an EventDispatcher with
additional `execPeer` and `triggerPeer` methods. `peer` here means, if you are executing `execPeer`
in Phoenix, it will execute the named function in node side, and vice versa. You can right away start
using `execPeer`, `triggerPeer`(to send/receive events) APIs without waiting to check if the
other side nodeConnector is created.

Note: If the NodeConnector has not been created on the other end, requests made with `execPeer` or
`triggerPeer` will be temporarily queued for up to 10 seconds to allow time for the connector to be created.
If the connector is not created within this timeout period, all queued `execPeer` requests will be rejected,
and all queued events will be dropped. It is recommended to call the `createNodeConnector` API on both ends
within a timeframe of less than 10 seconds(ideally same time) for seamless communication.

*   execPeer: A function that executes a peer function with specified parameters.
*   triggerPeer: A function that triggers an event to be sent to a peer.
*   Also contains all the APIs supported by `utils/EventDispatcher` module.

### Parameters

*   `nodeConnectorID` **[string][1]** The unique identifier for the new node connector.
*   `moduleExports` **[Object][2]** The exports of the module that contains the functions to be executed on the other side.

<!---->

*   Throws **[Error][3]** If a node connector with the same ID already exists/invalid args passed.

Returns **{execPeer: [function][4], triggerPeer: [function][4], trigger: [function][4], on: [function][4], off: [function][4], one: [function][4]}** A NodeConnector Object. Also contains all the APIs supported by `utils/EventDispatcher` module.

## isNodeAvailable

Checks if Node.js Engine is available.

Returns **[boolean][5]** Returns true if Node.js Engine is available.

## terminateNode

Terminate the PhNodeEngine node if it is available. Else does nothing.

Returns **void** 

## setInspectEnabled

Sets weather to enable node inspector in next boot.

### Parameters

*   `enabled` **[boolean][5]** true to enable, else false.

## isInspectEnabled

Returns whether node inspector is enabled. If node is not present, always returns false.

Returns **[boolean][5]** True if inspect mode is enabled, false otherwise.

## getInspectPort

Retrieves the node inspector port for the Phoenix Node.js engine.

Returns **[number][6]** The inspection port number.

[1]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String

[2]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object

[3]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error

[4]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/function

[5]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Boolean

[6]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number
