This document explains the process for managing documentation in Phoenix Code.

## The `docs` folder
The docs folder in the Phoenix repository contains guidelines for writing docs and adding translations. Most of the GitHub Wiki is autogenerated from this folder, covering how to update these aspects in your Phoenix repository.

> The contents of the `docs` folder are automatically pushed into Github Wiki. Make changes to Markdown files in this folder to update wiki entries.


## How To Write API docs
This section covers how API docs are auto generated and how you can update API docs.

To include any `.js` file containing [JSDoc](https://jsdoc.app/) in Phoenix Code API docs,
have this comment in any part of the file:
```js
// @INCLUDE_IN_API_DOCS 
```

### Writing JSDoc in source
Let us consider this example source file [src/utils/Metrics.js](https://github.com/phcode-dev/phoenix/blob/main/src/utils/Metrics.js).
The file is created with [JSDoc](https://jsdoc.app/) compliant source code comments. Make changes to the source code comments as required.

When you run `npm run createJSDoc` or `npm run build` the corresponding docs for the js file are automatically generated at [docs/API-Reference/utils/Metrics-API.md](https://github.com/phcode-dev/phoenix/blob/main/docs/API-Reference/utils/Metrics.md).

The generated docs should be pushed to Docs repository if there are any doc changes.
Once the changes are pushed, the build system will update the docs in
[doc](https://docs.phcode.dev/) site automatically.

## JSDoc Examples
This section outlines the various tags available in JSDoc to style docs with examples.

> All comment blocks with the `@private` tag will be ignored and won't appear in the docs.

### 1. Declaring a Module with `@module` tag

Use this to declare top level JS modules

```js
/**
 * The Metrics API can be used to send analytics data to track feature usage in accordance with users privacy settings.
 *
 *`Status: Internal - Not to be used by third party extensions.`
 *
 * ### Import
 * ```
* // usage within core:
* const Metrics = require("utils/Metrics");
*
* // usage within default extensions:
* const Metrics = brackets.getModule("utils/Metrics");
* ```
*
* @module utils/Metrics
  */
```

This will result in the following Markdown
> ## utils/Metrics
> The Metrics API can be used to send analytics data to track feature usage in accordance with users privacy settings.
>`Status: Internal - Not to be used by third party extensions.`
>### Import
>```js
>// usage within core:
>const Metrics = require("utils/Metrics");
>// usage within default extensions:
>const Metrics = brackets.getModule("utils/Metrics");
>```

### 2. Putting custom section in Markdown using `@name` tag

Use this to put custom markdown anywhere in the doc file.

```js
/**
 * This section outlines the properties and methods available in this module
 * @name API
 */
```

This will result in the following Markdown
> ## API
>This section outlines the properties and methods available in this module

### 3. types/constants using `@type` or `@const`

Use this to put constants or type definitions

```js
/**
 * The maximum number of audit entries; default is 3000.
 * @const {number}
 */
const MAX_AUDIT_ENTRIES = 3000;
```

This will result in the following Markdown
> ## MAX_AUDIT_ENTRIES
>
>The maximum number of audit entries; default is 3000.
>
>Type: [number]


### 4. Objects using `@typedef` and `@type`

Use this to doccment Objects

#### Method 1

```js
/**
 * The Type of events that can be specified as an `eventType` in the API calls.
 *
 * ### Properties
 * `PLATFORM`, `PROJECT`, `THEMES`
 *
 * @typedef EVENT_TYPE
 * @type {Object}
 */
const EVENT_TYPE = {
    PLATFORM: "platform",
    PROJECT: "project",
    THEMES: "themes"
};
```

Will Result in the following Markdown
> ## EVENT_TYPE
> The Type of events that can be specified as an `eventType` in the API calls.
> ### Properties
>`PLATFORM`, `PROJECT`, `THEMES`
>
> Type: [Object]

#### Method 2

```js
/**
 * The Type of events that can be specified as an `eventType` in the API calls.
 *
 * @typedef EVENT_TYPE
 * @type {Object}
 * @property {string} PLATFORM
 * @property {string} PROJECT
 * @property {string} THEMES
 */
const EVENT_TYPE = {
    PLATFORM: "platform",
    PROJECT: "project",
    THEMES: "themes"
};
```

This will result in the following Markdown
> ## EVENT_TYPE
> The Type of events that can be specified as an `eventType` in the API calls.
>
> Type: [Object]
> ### Properties
>
>*   `PLATFORM` **[string]**
>*   `PROJECT` **[string]**
>*   `THEMES` **[string]**


### 5. Function docs with `@function` or `@method`

Use this to document a function and its arguments/returns/exceptions.

**Note that the `EVENT_TYPE` is autodetected and hyperlinked by the framework**

```js
/**
 * log a numeric count >=0
 *
 * @example <caption>To log that user clicked searchButton 5 times:</caption>
 * Metrics.countEvent(Metrics.EVENT_TYPE.UI, "searchButton", "click", 5);
 *
 * @param {EVENT_TYPE|string} eventType The kind of Event Type that needs to be logged- should be a js var compatible string.
 * Some standard event types are available as `EVENT_TYPE`.
 * @param {number} count >=0
 * @type {function}
 */
function countEvent(eventType, count) {}
```

This will result in the following Markdown:

> ## countEvent
> log a numeric count >=0
> Type: [function][2]
> ### Parameters
>*   `eventType` **([EVENT_TYPE] | [string])** The kind of Event Type that needs to be logged- should be a js var compatible string.
     Some standard event types are available as `EVENT_TYPE`.
>*   `count` **[number]** > \=0
> ### Examples
>To log that user clicked searchButton 5 times:
>```javascript
>Metrics.countEvent(Metrics.EVENT_TYPE.UI, 5);
>```

### 6. More tags

Additional tags can be found at the JSDoc docs at [JSDoc](https://jsdoc.app/)
