This document outlines how to add support for various local languages in phoenix.

Phoenix currently supports over 35 languages and are mostly automatically translated with AWS/Google translate.

## The `src/nls` folder
This folder contains all the localised strings. Each sub folder corresponds to an [ISO-Language code](https://www.w3schools.com/tags/ref_language_codes.asp).

### The `src/nls/root` folder
A special folder called the `root` folder houses the reference english translations from which all other locale
translations are derived. The `root` folder has three main files:
1. `strings.js` - The full list of translated text.
2. `strings-app.js` - The list of language code to localised language name mapping. This will be used in the switch
language dialogue in debug menu.
3. `urls.js` - local specific URLs.

Each `src/nls/<locale>` folder also has the same kind of files.

## Autogenerated and manual translations
When any string changes are made to `src/nls/root/strings.js`, it will automatically be scanned by GitHub Actions and the
corresponding translations will be generated and a pull request raised with the new translations.

You can also run the translation command locally if you have the AWS/GCP keys with the command
```bash
npm run translateStrings
```

### Skipping auto translate
For some strings we may not want to translate them. For Example, for the keyboard shortcut string key `"KEYBOARD_CTRL": "Ctrl"`
we don't want it translated to any language. Just add another key appending `_DO_NOT_TRANSLATE` to the key
to disable automatic translations Eg. `"KEYBOARD_CTRL_DO_NOT_TRANSLATE": "true"` just below the original key. 

### Adding expert/manual translation overrides
We may want to add locale specific expert translation if the autogenerated translation is not good.
For Eg. consider the key `"LIVE_DEV_LOADING_ERROR_MESSAGE": "Unable to load Live Preview page."`, and we have to specify
a manual translation for that in `ro`(romanian). We can add a mapping in the file `nls/ro/expertTranslations.json` with
the following string `"Unable to load Live Preview page.": "Imposibil de a încărca pagina Live Development"` .

When the translation jobs run the next time, the expert translation will be used instead of auto generated translation.

## Adding a new locale translation
Say we want to add a new language translation `ko`. We have to do the following
1. In file `nls/strings.js` add the line `"ko": true,`
2. In file `nls/root/strings-app.js` add the line `"LOCALE_KO": "한국어",` where `한국어` is `Korean` in Korean language.
3. Create a new folder `nls/ko`
4. Create a new file `nls/ko/strings.js` with the content `define({});`
5. Create two new files `nls/ko/lastTranslated.json` and `nls/ko/expertTranslations.json` with the content `{}`

Once the code is checked in, the translation will be auto generated. You may manually generate the translation with 
`npm run translateStrings` if you have the necessary keys for translation.
